Active Systems:
The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Gabrielle, located over the central subtropical Atlantic.

Central and Western Tropical Atlantic (AL93):
Shower and thunderstorm activity associated with an elongated area 
of low pressure located several hundred miles east of the Leeward 
Islands continues to show signs of organization.  Environmental 
conditions are forecast to be favorable for further development, and 
a tropical depression is likely to form later today or Thursday 
while the system moves west-northwestward to northwestward into the 
western tropical Atlantic, well north of the Leeward Islands. 
Additional information on this system, including gale warnings, can 
be found in High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather 
Service.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...90 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...90 percent.

Eastern Caribbean Sea (AL94):
A tropical wave over the northeastern Caribbean Sea is producing 
disorganized showers and thunderstorms.  This wave is expected to 
move west-northwestward at 15 to 20 mph, spreading heavy rainfall 
and gusty winds into Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands today, and 
across the Dominican Republic beginning tonight.  The system is then 
expected to slow down and turn northwestward when it reaches the 
southwestern Atlantic late this week.  Environmental conditions are 
forecast to be more conducive for development in a few days, and a 
tropical depression is likely to form when the disturbance is in the 
vicinity of the Bahamas.  Interests in the Virgin Islands, Puerto 
Rico, the Dominican Republic, the Turks and Caicos Islands, and the 
Bahamas should monitor the progress of this system. An Air Force 
Hurricane Hunter Aircraft is scheduled to perform a system survey 
this afternoon to gather data from the surrounding environment, if 
necessary.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...30 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

&&

High Seas Forecasts issued by the National Weather Service
can be found under AWIPS header NFDHSFAT1, WMO header FZNT01 
KWBC, and online at ocean.weather.gov/shtml/NFDHSFAT1.php

$$
Forecaster Kelly
